# sfparticles

## Introduction

sfparticles is a simulation toolkit for particle tracking. 
Unklike particle-in-cell simulations, sfparticles does not solve field equations but instead tracks individual particles in pre-defined fields, without considering the inter-particle interactions. 
This allows for fast 3D simulations of large numbers of particles when plamsa denisty is low.

## Features
- **Numba Acceleration**: sfparticles leverages Numba to accelerate simulations by compiling Python code to machine code. To utilize Numba's parallel processing capabilities, you can set the `NUMBA_NUM_THREADS` environment variable to the number of threads you want to use.
- **Cascade Simulation**: Optimized for exponentially growing number of particles.
- **Flexible Field Configuration**: sfparticles allows you to define complex electromagnetic fields using python functions.
- **Particle Tracking**: The toolkit can track the trajectories of particles. see example.

## Installation

### Cloning the Repository

To get started with sfparticles, you can clone the repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone http://172.16.95.131/gengxs/sfparticles.git
```

Then, navigate to the project directory and install it in editable mode:

```bash
cd sfparticles
pip install --user -e .
```

Alternatively, you can install directly from the Git repository using pip:

```bash
pip install --user git+http://172.16.95.131/gengxs/sfparticles.git
```

## Usage

### Basic Simulation

To run a basic simulation, you can refer to the example scripts provided in the `examples` directory. For instance, to simulate a particle cascade, you can use the `cascade.py` script:

```bash
python examples/cascade.py
```

For trajectory simulations, you can use the `trajectory.py` script:

```bash
python examples/trajectory.py
```

### Advanced Settings

You can set environment variables to configure the simulation. For example, to use an optical depth radiation model, set the `SFPARTICLES_OPTICAL_DEPTH` environment variable:

```bash
SFPARTICLES_OPTICAL_DEPTH=1 python examples/cascade.py
```

## GPU Acceleration

For even faster simulations, sfparticles supports GPU acceleration. To enable this feature, you need to install CUDA and set `SFPARTICLES_USE_GPU=1` environment variable. 

**Note**: GPU is slow for small number of particles.

### Installing CUDA

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge cupy cudatoolkit=11.2
```

### Enabling GPU Acceleration

```bash
SFPARTICLES_USE_GPU=1 python examples/cascade.py
```

For Slurm job schedulers, you can use the following command:

```bash
SFPARTICLES_USE_GPU=1 srun -p gpu -G 1 -u python examples/cascade.py
```

---

Generated by Large Languge Model.